Good morning everyone. Today's Monday,
April 13th, and this is the Money Ball
Morning Report.
Data by TrendSpider, charts that is.
Gamma flows by Mentha Q and news by
Benzinga Pro.
Most importantly, data analytics by
tradeview.ai.
It's really what's keeping me on the
right side of the trades these days. All
right, let's start with
the euro dollar. We can find that on
TrendSpider by using
EUR/USD.
And if you watch me on Market Kickoff
last night, you'll notice that I said,
"Hey, listen, the dollar is at support
on Friday, it's very likely to bounce."
And that's what we had. We had ourselves
a little bit of
a bounce in the dollar, and that causes
a dip in the euro. Okay? So,
now what we have is the euro recovering,
and the euro is going to follow the
structure of the broad market in
general. It's holding the VWAP. I'm
interested to see if it breaks and
pushes the dollar higher. My suspicion
is that it is going after the 200 simple
moving average, which sits below near
that opening range. So, now that we have
the backdrop, let's jump into our
charts. Yikes.
And let's go to the S&P.
Uh
let's Let's remove all the annotations.
Start new. Right? So, here we are. Let's
do the day. It is a Monday,
the 13th of April for those of us
uh putting off writing
giant checks to the IRS, we have two
more days left. So, there we go. Um
Let's take a look at what's happening.
We're still making lower highs.
The goal was, can we recover the 200
simple moving average? We did that four
trading days ago.
What happens when we break up and we
have a downward 50 and an upward 200 is
sideways noise.
Right now, on the daily, we've got value
area low sitting somewhere around 6745,
and value area high at around 6975.
Those are just loose numbers. We can see
that we've got support action and
resistance action all the way across, so
we probably are going to have ourselves
a little bit of a ping pong action.
The question yesterday in Market
Kickoff, someone said, was, "Do we
expect
London
open, which is the 4:00 a.m. candle, do
we expect them to buy the gap
and push us into the gap fill and then
sell?" My thought was, I don't know.
But my suspicion is that whatever we do
here, it's not going to be
straightforward. We're going to have
some noise over the next few days.
Statistically speaking,
April is a bullish month, and so far,
it's very bullish, but notice,
it could fall all the way back down here
and still be bullish. So, the folks that
are putting that out there saying, "Hey,
listen, don't worry, it's normally
bullish."
Just remember what risk actually is. You
don't want to rush out there and buy
your favorite stocks simply because
statistically speaking, April's supposed
to be an up day. All right? Let's jump
into the 30 minute. That's enough of my
diatribe right there.
And let's take a look
orienting ourselves. Okay. First of all,
we had a very big
opening range across the board.
Let's go to the properties here and
let me make this thickness
thin.
All right? So, that we can actually see
what this candlestick was.
The width of the opening candlestick was
quite impressive.
And
we stayed there for
Okay, 30
1 2 3 4 hours before we really broke
out.
Breaking up over the opening range,
the open close range was key. That's
6780. At that point, when someone came
into the market, they bought 1256
contracts.
I don't know if they bought because they
were buying to cover. I don't know if
they bought because they were thinking
that price was going to move up. I don't
know. But what I do know is that there
was a purchase right there at 6780, and
that number became very important to me.
My suspicion was that we would buy the
dip because of two things. One, we're
very well hedged as a market, not
individually speaking about you or me,
although I am hedged,
but the broad market, the market makers
and the big money houses, investment
institutions.
So, they're very well hedged, so deep
dips are going to get bought, and that's
exactly what's happened. Now, we are
sitting, take a look at the 4:00 a.m.
candle, the 4:00 a.m. candle, excuse me.
I don't know why I keep saying that.
This 4:00 a.m. candle is
really
the one that the traders are going to
want
to move from. Oh, for the love of Pete.
Good heavens.
All right, this is our box.
Europe is open.
Are they able to break the high of
Europe's opening candlestick? Not yet.
So, that's our no fly zone for any more
buying.
Could we
perchance
have a dip buy?
Ahead? And that answer, of course, is
yes. Let's talk about relationship and
orientation. First thing we notice is
the pivot is above us.
The 50 is downward sloping, also above
us.
The gamma wall flipping us from negative
to positive is also above us.
And the anchored VWAP from Friday is
also above us.
Today's VWAP and the 200 are below us.
So, we're caught in this ping pong
event, and you can see that ping
ponging, it's been 1 2 3 4 and 1/2
hours.
What should, , happen?
A pullback into
that opening range.
Which could be all the way down into the
lower gamma wall at 6780,
where that person purchased right at the
open, or it could be somewhere right at
the VWAP and the 200 at around 6794,
which was the high for a very long time.
So, that would be my first
uh target for a short
that might occur at the top of this 6819
area. Okay, so what do we expect today?
Ping pong, flat
uh momentum, so buyers underneath,
sellers above,
noise everywhere in the news cycle.
Dips are going to be bought, spikes are
going to be sold until we figure out
what is going on. Today's pivot is well
above us at 6800
and 66.
Remember, the 6865
is the conversion of where the JP Morgan
uh collar is sitting for the call side.
The call wall above is 6900, the put
wall below is 6500.
So, very far below us.
All right, let's go to the NQ.
Sideways action today.
So, you want to be careful
and manage your risk like every day,
right? That's
be be absolutely maniacal about managing
your risk, and you're going to be able
to stay in for the game.
Right?
Don't be the 150 lb quarterback that
goes after,
you know,
the linebacker
just because he wants to be a hero. No,
no, don't do that.
It's very bad. All right, let's take a
look at the NQ.
The NQ is in a different formation. It's
above both the 50 and the 100. However,
the 50 is downward sloping.
It's above the gamma wall, so it's in
positive gamma.
Looks really different to the ES. I
mean, it really does. Now, I don't know
if it's going to hold this structure,
but if it's moving ahead of the ES, it
might be giving us a clue that the ES is
going to resolve, but I don't have any
idea. I really don't. I'm just noting
that the two structures look very
different today.
All right. Put wall 24,000,
call wall
25,500.
And we're very close to that call wall
there.
Big gap. Is a gap fill likely? Well, you
know, a lot of people make a living
trading a gap.
Right? That's all they do.
Just gap fill strategies. And if the
gap's not there, they don't even play.
Which is interesting, but
to be said. Okay. All right. So, what
are we looking at? Positive gamma. We're
above the gamma wall.
We are below the pivot.
The pivot sits at the central pivot sits
at 25,307.
The anchored VWAP right there at 25,290.
We are underneath the 50, above the 200.
Ping-pong action on the way.
Value area high 25,131.
Value area low 24,976.
The opening candle formation
90 points wide.
Very big.
But what that does is give us beautiful
target zones. So,
this opened up my shorts both in the ES
and the NQ in this space.
I don't like trading the NQ
because it's structurally stronger. I
don't like trading it short.
So,
for me, the big trade would be in the
ES, not in the NQ here.
However, if the NQ fades,
very likely to come into the VWAP or the
top of that opening minute candle, which
is 25,000. The 200 sits below 24,963.
Momentum is flat. The pivot
could be the upward target of the day
filling the gap.
You know, it is very hard to say. I hate
to sound like I'm punting.
What I will say is I like shorting the
top and buying the bottom.
Or I like buying the bottom and shorting
the top. This is looking like a range
day.
We're completely
holding this value area. And so, that is
going to be important to look. That
value area again, 25,000 below, 25,140
above.
Yesterday, excuse me, Friday's pivot is
25,000
100 59.
Let's take a look at Bitcoin.
Let's remove all the annotations. We
want to start fresh on every Monday.
This is
still sideways.
They're trying to build volume in here
and create a base. Now, here's the
interesting thing. See how this is
brighter, this volume profile here is
brighter than this? That's because
there's still more volume up here than
down here. The longer we stay here, this
is going to become bright and that is
going to become dim.
And that's what we're staring down. So,
still sideways, downward sloping 50, 200
is well above us, so everything is still
bearish. On the bounce, the big number
for us to get over remains 75,000.
And
this fade or the failure to hold this
motion tells us that we have
a potential downside pressure event.
Now, here's the thing. Look at the size
of the opening range candle. Now, I took
a long here.
I am since out of it,
thankfully. But it did come back, held
very nicely,
moved into value area low and collapsed.
What do we notice? The 200 is flat and
in the way. This is our most important
moving average.
On a bigger frame, the most important
moving average on a tight frame is the
VWAP. And so, what are we staring down?
Same sort of sideways motion with the
VWAP. Are we holding the low? Yes,
7,590.
Are we above the gamma wall, which makes
gamma positive? Yes, we are. But look at
where the pivot is. 72,000
978.
Look at where the anchored VWAP is,
72,678.
And Friday's pivot 72,000. So, there is
room for this price to move to the
north.
But if it cannot get up over that
opening candle,
which is 71,600,
there's no bullish action here that's
going to hold.
And in my estimation, if they can't get
above this 200 at 71,250,
we are going to see a fade and the
market is likely to come back down. Now,
I think the market's going to come back
down, the broad indices. I think those
indices are going to come down and test
that
that baseline area that they were
dancing at all night. For the ES, it
looks like about
to 6800. That's what That's what I'm
thinking of. And Bitcoin will more than
likely follow suit.
All right. Let's go to oil.
>> [snorts]
>> Very interesting. Hoops said in the
session last night,
"Hey, oil's getting to roll over,
and that's going to make pricing
sticky."
Very interesting because pricing has
been very sticky. Take a look at what's
going on.
Lot of things moving around
in in the Gulf.
Lots of things. Higher lows
and higher highs
still put the market in a bullish
pressure event. But notice,
we are still inside
of the original candlestick created at
the beginning
of
this disruption in the Gulf.
What does this tell us?
It tells us that the big players
are simply treading water
until things really
uh resolve. Now, the forward contracts
are still in backwardation. They still
expect oil to fade.
Could it? Sure thing. Listen, the 200
on the daily is all the way down here at
66.
My suspicion is that we test 85.
But the fact that oil is not moving
further upward tells me, once again,
that these guys are very well hedged.
And that is going to make all the
difference. Take a look.
Where's the 200 on the 30-minute? It's
below us
and downward trending. The 50 is below
us, but upward trending. So, that
crosscurrent is going to give us a fade
action that bounces.
Take a look at the opening
candle. Listen, this was made this
30-minute candle, the entire range was
literally made in the first 2 minutes of
trading.
And it stayed there all night. Notice
the 50% range.
10380.
Also big gamma wall.
But 10380
is holding currently as support. Here's
the problem.
That is a flag.
And it's drifting downward. My thought
is that we are very likely to come in
and kiss the edge around 102
irrespective of what's going on in the
market.
Truly. Because of the hedging. And this
potential rollover.
The buy zone very likely at about 101.
Though they could fill in the gap. I
don't know. I mean, I literally do not
know. What I do expect is that when we
collapse into this 101 area, we should
see some more buying.
Yesterday, excuse me, Friday we had and
Thursday, we had these bounces that
failed. And look at what they did. They
came right into value area low. That's
$95. That's going to be the zone that we
watch on the low side.
On the high side,
the call wall at 100
is potentially beckoning.
All right. Now, where does my
setup go wonky?
We break 10550.
If If that happens, I'm completely wrong
and price action's going to move upward.
Now, Brent is becoming more expensive,
but it's nowhere as expensive as all the
other
uh all the other crudes out there.
All right. So,
that being said, that's what we're
staring down. Right now, we've been
sitting just price action not really
moving much at all.
So, they are setting up for the next
range. Remember,
we want to look at the 6:00 p.m. to 6:30
p.m. Eastern time. That's 5:00 to 5:30
Central.
We want to look at the 4:00 a.m. to 4:30
candle.
That's 3:00 a.m. to 3:30 Central. And we
want to look at the opening range 8:30
to 9:00.
I only use the first 30 minutes.
8:30 to 9:00 Central. That's 9:30 to
10:00
Eastern. Okay?
Let's take a look at gold.
See if we've moved. Yes, indeed.
So, the reason
reason quotations that gold is
doing its thing like this is
really have everything It has everything
to do with the dollar. Won't go into
that mechanical space, but essentially
if the dollar gets more expensive, gold
is going to get cheaper. And so, this is
what's happened over time. And now the
dollar was pulling back.
And now
it's rising again. So, we should
see
gold come in. Doesn't mean that gold is
not long-term bullish, which it it very
well may be, but that's more physical
gold than
uh this financialized instrument. We can
talk about that a little bit later
understanding the difference between a
financialized instrument and
the actual physical event and how
it's traded is is an important thing
that we can talk about one day.
All right. What are we looking at? We
are underneath the 50, above the 200. We
tested the 200 about I don't know, 2
weeks ago bouncing off of that. We are
caught
below
the put wall
for zero DTEs today. And of course, this
number changes rapidly. We would want to
look for the big put wall below at 4415.
Notice on the daily value area high
4496,
value area low 3820.
And that pesky 200 sitting near this
deep dip at 4100 and change. In my mind
suggests a retest into that area. I
would not be surprised to see it come in
to 4100 at some juncture.
All right.
Let's go to the 30-minute frameout the
day. How might we want to trade this?
Well,
it's a bit messy.
Opening range formation
also very large.
Traders have held the low of this level
quite nicely.
How many contracts went through here?
That's a That's a really big number for
overnight. Notice
it's almost as much as we traded in the
middle of the trading day
on Thursday of last week. So, that is a
very large amount and it's certainly
telling us it's the one to watch. We
stopped dead at 4761.
That's going to be the go no-go line for
the traders. The pullback
into the VWAP
potentially gives us our first long.
And that is around 4720. If it were me,
I would use a trade near the gamma wall
at around 4700
and then watch it recover above the
gamma wall in order to go long.
Because I believe the dollar is going to
spike again, I expect gold to fade
and take the market with it
into support. This is only my
expectation. I have no idea what's going
to happen, but that's how I'm framing
out the day. The midpoint at 4692
also a sweet spot
as a target if you're short or
um as a place to consider mapping out a
long if it holds that zone at least into
the resistance area of 4720.
Value area high 4830,
value area low 4750.
The pivot above us
4781.
So, if the pivot is above us and the
moving averages are above us,
feels like there's downside pressure
here.
As it sits.
We'll have to see how well it holds the
VWAP. Okay? And the gamma wall. And
that's all we can do. Momentum flat as a
pancake, not telling us anything. Let's
go to spy.
Golly, I feel like I've been talking a
long time.
All right, let's get rid of all our
annotations. Start the week fresh. What
are we staring down?
The gap
that is holding
right at the gamma wall. That's very
interesting. On the daily, value area
low 671.
Value area high 694.
Call wall 685.
Put wall Excuse me. 660.
Let's go to 30-minute.
VWAP above us.
Traders really trying to recover that
VWAP. The gamma wall is sitting here, so
that's very sideways. I would draw
>> [cough]
[clears throat]
>> Wow, this always happens to me in the
morning. I have no idea why.
I would draw a candle formation around
this 4:00 a.m. open because it's pretty
important.
The gamma wall looks like the floor of
support. It is literally where they
bought. And so, that number is 675.
You can see them dancing around that
zone. They want to hold it. If they hold
it, they'll be in really good shape.
If they don't,
they're headed back
to the pivot area
right down here at 674. So,
you have a dollar of motion
to the south and then
take a look at the size of this bimodal.
Well, it's got two modes.
Bimodal distribution here.
Very unique. The size of the value area
is huge for 30-minute chart. 682 to 671.
682 at the top, 671 at the bottom. That
is very wide.
Um and because it's bimodal, we could
easily try to fill in the gap.
Anchored VWAP
at 678.
Momentum is bearish.
However,
the 200 is very far below us. We've got
a lot of structure that says that this
is likely to hold
the base of this value area. So, dips
dips are buys
until they're not. So, what you would do
is you'd buy the dip and watch it walk
through resistance. Because we are under
the pivot, it is likely to be bearish,
but into support because we've got
upward flow altogether. It's a very
noisy mix. All right? Be careful.
Super important. Also, I I want to show
this to you guys and gals. This is a
blog spot from SMB.
Listen, this is one of the best videos
I've seen. For those of us that are
really nervous about touching AI,
this is great.
You got to got to look at it. Super
important. It's going to help you a ton.
All right? Okay, everybody. Take care.
I'll see you on the streams.